{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)\
\
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Say we do all survive two years of campaign help, where does that leave our family? \
\
SIGOURNEY WEAVER, ACTRESS: Hopefully, in the White House.\
\
(END VIDEO CLIP)\
\
MORGAN: Sigourney Weaver doesn't just play a political animal on TV. She's got a few things to say about real-world politics, as well. \
\
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)\
\
WEAVER: I think if you look at individual senators, like Patrick Leahy, or like Olympia Snowe, like Chuck Schumer, there's so many individuals that I admire.\
\
(END VIDEO CLIP)\
\
MORGAN: Also, my one-on-one, very candid interview with Michael Phelps.\
\
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)\
\
MICHAEL PHELPS, OLYMPIC SWIMMER: If you want to be the best, you have to do things that other people aren't willing to do.\
\
(END VIDEO CLIP)\
\
MORGAN: This is PIERS MORGAN TONIGHT.\
\
(MUSIC)\
\
MORGAN: Good evening.\
\
As the Olympics draw to a close, the games in London will be remembered as some of the most spectacular performances in history. Swimmer Michael Phelps is now the most decorated Olympic athlete ever, a remarkable 22 medals, 18 of them gold. I sat down with Michael Phelps before the Olympics to talk about his victories, his mistakes, both professional and personal. As you'll see, he speaks from the heart and holds back very little. \
\
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)\
\
MORGAN: So, Michael, welcome.\
\
PHELPS: Thank you. \
\
MORGAN: You told me that if you're ever tired, you get a bit grouchy and the interview can be very short.\
\
PHELPS: I do.\
\
MORGAN: So how are you feeling?\
\
PHELPS: Well, I feel all right.\
\
MORGAN: Grouchy? Tired?\
\
PHELPS: No, not yet. Maybe a couple questions and -- \
\
(LAUGHTER)\
\
PHELPS: You get that, right? \
\
MORGAN: Well, you also warned me, you've been answering questions all day. And if I just repeat the same old nonsense you've been asked all day, then you're going to give me less time.\
\
PHELPS: I'll just be like a tape recorder, though.\
\
MORGAN: Well, I take you at your word. \
\
So London is my hometown. What's extraordinary is every American athlete that I've interviewed when I asked them to cite a role model, I'd say 90 percent say you. Feel like this kind of weird god-like figure to them. With that comes responsibility.\
\
Are you aware of the status you have amongst your peer group? And what do you feel about that responsibility?\
\
PHELPS: I mean, sometimes I feel it, but, I mean, I like to just think of myself as a normal person who just has a passion, has a goal and a dream and goes out and does it. And that's really how I've always lived my life.\
\
MORGAN: See, I've seen you say that before. But come on, Michael, you're not a normal person.\
\
PHELPS: I consider myself normal. I've spent 20 years in the pool. I consider that something that's normal.\
\
MORGAN: That's not normal.\
\
(CROSSTALK)\
\
PHELPS: What do you consider normal? \
\
MORGAN: Well, not spending 20 years in the pool.\
\
PHELPS: I don't consider -- \
\
MORGAN: I spend about 20 minutes in the pool a day.\
\
PHELPS: Well, that's not normal.\
\
(LAUGHTER)\
\
MORGAN: Well, what I was struck by with you was there are great athletes and great gymnasts and great swimmers and so on. I don't think I've ever seen anybody who did what you did, and confirm the statistics on this, that you trained for five years literally -- \
\
PHELPS: That's right.\
\
MORGAN: -- every single day, 365 days, each of those five years, consecutively. That is incredible dedication to your sport.\
\
Do you know anybody else that has done that? \
\
PHELPS: No. I've never heard of anybody else who does that.\
\
MORGAN: What is the motivation at the end of the day for that kind of extreme dedication?\
\
PHELPS: I mean, if you want to be the best, you have to do things that other people aren't willing to do. And at that point, you know, we had thought that for every year, we get 52 other days of more training than anybody else gets, every single year.\
\
And also in swimming, if you miss one day of swimming, it takes you twice as long to get back. So, you know, for example, for me after 2008, I took six months off. It took me -- probably it took me really about a year and a half to get back to where I was, like, really needed to be and should be.\
\
MORGAN: When you were little Michael Phelps, was the dream to be an Olympic champion? Did you have other crazy dreams?\
\
Did you think of -- being an astronaut or football, or whatever? What were the young Michael Phelps dreams? \
\
PHELPS: Olympic gold medalist, world record holder, special athlete.\
\
MORGAN: That was it? From what age did you know that?\
\
PHELPS: I mean, I grew up. My sister was first in the nation, third in the world, when she was 14, so I was 9. And then I got to 10 and I saw, like, all the cool things that she got to do. Like travel all over the world and do this, do that, I was like, that sounds cool, like I want to do that.\
\
MORGAN: And also, you're the younger brother. PHELPS: The baby, yes.\
\
MORGAN: Thinking, why is my older sister doing better than me, right? Like all younger brothers.\
\
PHELPS: We were all very competitive in everything that we do.\
\
MORGAN: When you're at home playing, do you play board games together?\
\
PHELPS: I would always try to. They wouldn't always let me play, like play games with them but -- \
\
MORGAN: I mean, are you just a ridiculously competitive family?\
\
PHELPS: Yes. Everything that we do.\
\
MORGAN: Try and describe what it means to be a great American. \
\
PHELPS: Wow. You know, I think to be -- for me to be an American is -- you know, it's one of the greatest things in the world for -- you know, for me just because I've been able to grow up with everything. The freedom. You know, in my eyes this is the greatest country in the world.\
\
And, you know, throughout my career, I've been able to, you know, to travel overseas and to represent my country the best way that I could.\
\
And, you know, being able to wear the stars and stripes, when you step up on one of the blocks or, you know, when you step off of an airplane or when you hear the national anthem play, you know, it's one of the greatest feelings in the world because you know that there are people at home who are supporting you and watching you. \
\
And you know, the stories that I've heard, you know, from people telling me what they were doing or where they were, you know, watching races from 2008, I think really shows how close we are as a country. And it's pretty special to just feel the support from all the fans.\
\
MORGAN: Who are your sporting idols?\
\
PHELPS: Michael Jordan.\
\
MORGAN: Why him?\
\
PHELPS: He changed the sport of basketball in my eyes. You know how -- you know, on and off the court. The guy, I mean, in my eyes, made basketball what it is. And you know what he did -- \
\
MORGAN: Have you met him?\
\
PHELPS: I haven't. Never met him.\
\
MORGAN: What would you ask him if you were able to meet Michael Jordan?\
\
PHELPS: I've -- you know, I've had that thought a lot.\
\
MORGAN: What's the thing you're most curious about with him?\
\
PHELPS: I mean, I think part of me would ask him about what made him come back to the sport. What made him go to basketball and then decided to come back -- or excuse me, baseball, and then decide to come back to basketball.\
\
You know, I think one of the coolest things that I love about him was it didn't matter what he had, you know, going on off the court or if he was sick or this or that. He never used it as an excuse. He came out every single night on the court. And he did what he had to do to get the job done. And that's what champions do. \
\
It doesn't matter what else is going on. When you walk into your arena or your -- whatever you excel at, you're there to take care of the job that you have to do.\
\
MORGAN: One of the downsides of his kind of success and indeed what you've enjoyed is you become celebrities. Not through choice. You just become exponentially more famous than you were before. How have you dealt with that side of things?\
\
PHELPS: You know, I'm sure I'll be the first one to admit I've made a lot of mistakes in my life. And, you know, but I think being able to have the opportunity of being a "celebrity". \
\
You know, it helps me achieve some of the things that I want to do with the goal to raise the bar on the sport of swimming. You know, I think, you know, one, people should learn how to swim more just for safety. But two, also try to get them involved in our sport.\
\
And, you know, we have seen a significant change over the last, you know, 10 years. But in my eyes it can change so much more. \
\
(END VIDEOTAPE)\
\
MORGAN: When we come back, Michael tells how he hit rock bottom after winning all that gold in Beijing. \
\
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)\
\
MORGAN: More now with Michael Phelps. His low point might have come at the beginning of 2009, when a British tabloid ran a full page picture of him smoking pot. USA Swimming suspended him from competing for three months.\
\
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)\
\
MORGAN: I mean, I remember when I was young, Mark Spitz winning his seven golds, and feeling incredibly inspired by him -- even though I wasn't a good swimmer then. I'm not a great swimmer now. But I remember feeling inspired to want to be Mark Spitz. He made swimming sexy for that generation.\
\
And you've done exactly the same thing now. You know, you've made swimming a sexy sport and taken it outside of the pool. But with that, as I say, comes this kind of celebrity thing. And you touched on making mistakes.\
\
To me, the mistakes you've made, they're not massive mistakes. They were made to be apparent massive mistakes simply because of who you were.\
\
I remember the bong picture coming out. And I remember just laughing at people, saying, really? This is a scandal of epic proportions? And I saw the reaction. I saw people getting censorious with you. I saw sponsors getting twitchy and so on.\
\
And I really thought it lost all sense of proportion. To me all I saw was a guy -- yes, all right, you probably shouldn't have been doing it. But I saw a guy who had spent five consecutive years in a pool, who probably just wanted to let his hair down.\
\
PHELPS: I mean -- well, I guess, I literally have made a boatload of mistakes and, you know, that's a part of growing and learning and I guess becoming an adult. You know, you -- with every mistake that you make, you obviously have to pay for the consequences that come your way. And -- \
\
MORGAN: When you knew that picture was coming out, how did you feel?\
\
PHELPS: Not too good.\
\
MORGAN: Did you even -- did you lose your cool? I mean, did you feel -- what is that feeling like?\
\
PHELPS: Like the worst in the world, you know, like I lost all the -- I mean, I think it sort of just -- yes, it's terrible.\
\
MORGAN: I heard you say the worst thing was having to tell your mother. I can relate to that. I can imagine there's no harder conversation. \
\
How did you get through that? How did you brace yourself for that?\
\
PHELPS: You know, I think -- my mom has always been obviously how all moms are. You know, they're very supportive in their children. And you know, my mom growing up, you know, always would let us kind of see how we -- I guess choose the decisions that we wanted to but if we made those decision, we had to live with the consequences that came our way.\
\
So obviously, I was very disappointed in the decision that I made but, you know, obviously, I learned from it and, you know, I mean I'll make a million mistakes in my life but for as long as I never make the same mistake again, I'll be able to learn and grow and -- \
\
MORGAN: Do you feel people overreacted a little bit?\
\
PHELPS: Do you feel people overreacting?\
\
MORGAN: Yes, I did, yes. Only because you're Michael Phelps, you set yourself on such a flint (ph) after Beijing, of just unbelievable achievement.\
\
PHELPS: People build you up and they'll knock you down.\
\
MORGAN: Yes. One the easier things must be the sheer volume of attractive women that would like to be associated with you.\
\
PHELPS: I mean, I don't know. I try not to get myself into too much trouble.\
\
(LAUGHTER)\
\
MORGAN: Have you found you've got more attractive the more gold medals you won?\
\
PHELPS: I think the biggest thing is you got to find who's real and who's not.\
\
MORGAN: How many times have you been properly in love?\
\
PHELPS: With what?\
\
MORGAN: I was assuming a woman.\
\
PHELPS: A woman would probably be twice.\
\
MORGAN: Twice in your life. Have you been capable of proper love given the extraordinary -- \
\
PHELPS: In my eyes, yes.\
\
MORGAN: Have you had your heart broken?\
\
PHELPS: Sure, definitely probably, high school.\
\
MORGAN: What was worst, having your heart broken or losing a race? A race you really wanted to win?\
\
PHELPS: I mean, I don't -- I think they're both learning experiences.\
\
(CROSSTALK)\
\
MORGAN: I'm trying to get to the age old question about great champions. Does it come before anything? Does winning that gold medal repeatedly come above everything else?\
\
PHELPS: For me, it's more about personal goals and things I want to achieve myself. I know that if I prepare myself the best way I can, everything else will fall into place.\
\
MORGAN: Do you think you're going to retire after this or is it a crazy question to ask any athlete really? I remember Steve Redgrave -- one of our great, our greatest Olympic champion in Britain -- constantly retiring. He kept being lured back for the love of the gold.\
\
PHELPS: I'm retiring and I won't be coming back. MORGAN: That will be it?\
\
PHELPS: Yes.\
\
MORGAN: Will you literally give up all competitive swimming do you think? \
\
PHELPS: Competitive swimming, yes.\
\
MORGAN: That will be it?\
\
PHELPS: Yes.\
\
MORGAN: Will you still swim a lot for fun?\
\
PHELPS: Probably going to need to do something for exercise.\
\
MORGAN: Is swimming still fun for you?\
\
PHELPS: It is.\
\
MORGAN: You could imagine just doing laps for no reason?\
\
PHELPS: I think one of the biggest things after I do retire is, you know, now when I go to the ocean, go to the beach, I don't want get in the water. I spend so much time in the water, I'm like -- no, I'll sit here in the beach and you guys go have fun or I'll sit by the pool, you guys do what you want to do.\
\
If I can look back with my career and say I've done everything I've ever wanted. No matter how many medals, no matter how many records, no matter how many this, that, or whatever, if I can look back on my career and say that, doesn't matter anything else. I consider my career a success.\
\
(END VIDEOTAPE)\
\
MORGAN: Next, a rare look at the Michael Phelps very few people have seen.\
\
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)\
\
MORGAN: Continuing my interview with Michael Phelps. We've all seen his public side, record-setting swimmer. Here's a side to him he's kept to himself, his work with kids who have been less fortunate than him.\
\
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)\
\
MORGAN: A lot of young Americans who have gone off the rails a bit. I know you do a lot of this sort of talks in schools and stuff. What do you say to get inside their heads? What have you found makes or can make a difference?\
\
PHELPS: I mean, the biggest thing is -- I mean, I talk about how I got to where I am -- a dream, a plan and I reach for it. That's literally all -- how I got to where I am. Sure, I mean, I'm human.\
\
And that's literally just what I try to -- get across to the kids. Sure, my life hasn't been perfect. No one's is. I was raised by a single mother. And I'm able to kind of relate with them a little bit here and there.\
\
And, you know, they see that and, you know, the cool thing is, being able to, one, hear the stories about things they've overcome. Two, the changes they've been able to make whether it's goal setting, whether it's eating healthier. You know, whether they become water safe. \
\
It's all these things and when you see the excitement of them telling you the story, that's the coolest thing in the world.\
\
It's like the best thing ever. So, to sort of being able to get those points across and really just being able to show anything is possible if you want it bad enough.\
\
MORGAN: There's a whole side to you which I unraveled in the research, which I found really interesting. And it was a lot of stuff that you do very quietly.\
\
Certainly, for young swimmers who for whatever reason haven't been dealt a lot of luck in life. There's one really poignant story I wanted to talk to you about, which is this young boy, Stevie Hansen, who is a young swimmer. And he became seriously ill -- and really devoted a lot of time, getting on planes to going to see him and encourage him and so on. \
\
Tell me about this young man.\
\
PHELPS: First time I met him, I went to a summer league. I went to one of his summer league meets to watch him swim. And I was able just to hang out. I was with his mom. I watched him swim. And we were playing basketball.\
\
And he would be fine, then he would get sick. He would be fine and then he would get sick. And then I moved to Michigan. And I came back and, you know, he was just happy when he was able to sit and spend time with me.\
\
MORGAN: He had a form of cancer, is that -- \
\
PHELPS: Yes. And he would just relax and it would kind of help him relax and take his, you know, his mind off the pain. \
\
MORGAN: His parents have told the story of -- he suddenly took a dramatic turn for the worse and they contacted you. You got on the first plane you could. The plane was slightly delayed and by the time you got there -- \
\
PHELPS: I showed up at like midnight. I had to turn around and go home the next day.\
\
MORGAN: You spent hours with him -- PHELPS: He was -- he was asleep, and didn't wake up at all. My mom and I sat there and just talked to him, and held his hand. Very shortly after, he passed away.\
\
MORGAN: Do you feel there's a side to you that very few people know? Do you protect it?\
\
PHELPS: There are things that are protected, yes.\
\
MORGAN: Hearing you talk about Steve there and what you did for him and hearing what his parents have said, you see a very different side to the steely champion athlete.\
\
PHELPS: Yes. I mean, you know, there are a lot of things that -- I mean, I would say people know about 90 percent of everything that happens in my life. The other 10 percent just no one needs to know.\
\
MORGAN: There was a period your coach, your great coach, said when he thought he lost you. You stopped coming to training. Sometimes you went six weeks without coming to training.\
\
And no one could blame you. You just won eight golds at the Beijing Olympics. You smashed all records. There was ostensibly nothing left to swim for and he thought really that that was possibly it. What was going through your mind through that period?\
\
PHELPS: Nothing. I literally just -- unmotivated, didn't want to do anything, didn't want to get out of bed, didn't want to work out. Had no drive, had no goals. I had goals but I just didn't want to do anything about them. I'm just unmotivated.\
\
MORGAN: Do you feel now as motivated as you've ever been?\
\
PHELPS: I mean, I wouldn't say it was as motivated as I've ever been. But I am very motivated, after going through some of the races I've had happen over the last three years, I just don't want to lose, I'm sick of it.\
\
MORGAN: You've got to win three to break the all-time world record of Olympic medals. Is that the real goal? Be honest.\
\
PHELPS: I actually didn't even know that was the number until earlier in the year when somebody brought it up. I have personal things that I want to accomplish. And that's what I'm after. \
\
I always want to do things that nobody has ever done before. So, just to be able to be in the same sentence with some of the Olympic greats that are the best and -- \
\
MORGAN: You are just able to be in the same sentence if you would win three. And there's a very high probability of that. You will be officially the greatest Olympian in the history of the Olympics. \
\
PHELPS: Pretty cool. \
\
MORGAN: Pretty cool? (LAUGHTER)\
\
PHELPS: I'm laid back.\
\
MORGAN: You would be the Michael Jordan of Olympics.\
\
PHELPS: I would have been able to complete everything that I've ever wanted. If I can look back on my career and say I've done everything I've ever wanted, no matter how many medals, no matter how many records, no matter how many this, that, whatever, if I can look back in my career and say, it doesn't matter with anything else. I consider my career a success. \
\
MORGAN: How would you like to be remembered? Whatever happens in Olympics?\
\
PHELPS: Being the first Michael Phelps. That's really the only thing, doing something that nobody else has ever done before, changing the sports of swimming. That's what I hope to walk out of this sport with.\
\
MORGAN: Michael, all the very best in London.\
\
PHELPS: Thank you very much.\
\
MORGAN: It's been a pleasure sitting down with you. I really enjoyed it. \
\
PHELPS: Thank you.\
\
MORGAN: Thank you.\
\
(END VIDEOTAPE)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa200

\f1\b\fs26 \cf0 Bob Costas
\b0 : \'93You\'92ve said that without swimming, your sense of yourself, your identity, was lost, and you had no real direction. And this led to some dark places, right?\'94\

\b Michael Phelps
\b0 : \'93Oh my gosh. I mean, still, remember the days locked up in my room, not wanting to talk to anybody, not wanting to see anybody. Really not wanting to live. I was on a downward spiral and I was on the express elevator to the bottom floor, wherever that might be. And I found it.\'94\
(SEGMENT DETAILING PHELPS SECOND DUI ARREST)\

\b Michael Phelps
\b0 : \'93For me, I think I had to reach my absolute rock bottom in order for me to kind of get a wake-up call. And that was it. Those mornings waking up, not wanting to be alive\'85\'94\

\b Bob Costas
\b0 : \'93Did you actually contemplate suicide?\'a0 I guess there\'92s a difference between not wanting to be alive and thinking, \'91I\'92ll actually end it.\'92\'94\

\b Michael Phelps
\b0 : \'93There were thoughts where I was like, \'91How would I do it?\'92 But I knew I never could, because I know it would hurt so many people, me included. The thoughts were there and they were there really heavy. And I kind of just started making some progress, and then I just decided that something had to change.\'94\

\b Bob Costas
\b0 : \'93So you go to a rehab center, and you\'92re in the presence of other people battling addiction problems. On the other hand, they\'92re not oblivious \'96 \'91Hey, that\'92s Michael Phelps\'92 \'96 but eventually that\'92s got to go away, because you\'92re all in the same boat. How does that work?\'94\

\b Michael Phelps
\b0 : \'93I\'92ll never forget the night we were there watching football. Something went across the bottom (of the screen), like I was suspended. And they showed me swimming, and they all just turned and looked at me, and I was like, \'91Well, cat\'92s out of the bag. So yup, I\'92m here, it\'92s me.\'92 (laughing)\'94\

\b Michael Phelps
\b0 : \'93It was wild. That was kind of the first real, \'91Oh, OK, that is him.\'92 After that, it was really just\'85they opened up, because like you said, we\'92re all in there trying to tackle something that\'92s holding us back, so to speak.\'94\

\b Michael Phelps
\b0 : \'93I went through this process where we tried to connect with our inner child, and I had so many vivid memories of me at the age of seven, eight, nine. It was kind of cool to realize that the kid is still going to come out in this, and that\'92s who we really are. I remember, I went through a box of tissues that day, just pouring emotions out. Once we brought all of that stuff out, I literally felt like a new person.\'94\

\b Michael Phelps
\b0 : \'93The life that I live now is a dream come true. I\'92m able to do what I love in the pool and out of the pool. I have a beautiful baby boy, a gorgeous fianc\'e9, a great family, I\'92m closer to the people who like me and love me for me than I ever have been in my life \'96 and I would never change that. I truly am living a dream come true.\'94}