{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red83\green83\blue83;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \'93oh my gosh. i mean, still, remember the days locked up in my room, not wanting to talk to anybody, not wanting to see anybody. really not wanting to live. i was on a downward spiral and i was on the express elevator to the bottom floor, wherever that might be. and i found it.\'94 \'93for me, i think i had to reach my absolute rock bottom in order for me to kind of get a wake-up call. and that was it. those mornings waking up, not wanting to be alive\'85\'94 \'93there were thoughts where i was like, \'91how would i do it?\'92 but i knew i never could, because i know it would hurt so many people, me included. the thoughts were there and they were there really heavy. and i kind of just started making some progress, and then i just decided that something had to change.\'94 \'93i\'92ll never forget the night we were there watching football. something went across the bottom (of the screen), like i was suspended. and they showed me swimming, and they all just turned and looked at me, and i was like, \'91well, cat\'92s out of the bag. so yup, i\'92m here, it\'92s me.\'92 (laughing)\'94 \'93it was wild. that was kind of the first real, \'91oh, ok, that is him.\'92 after that, it was really just\'85they opened up, because like you said, we\'92re all in there trying to tackle something that\'92s holding us back, so to speak.\'94 \'93i went through this process where we tried to connect with our inner child, and i had so many vivid memories of me at the age of seven, eight, nine. it was kind of cool to realize that the kid is still going to come out in this, and that\'92s who we really are. i remember, i went through a box of tissues that day, just pouring emotions out. once we brought all of that stuff out, i literally felt like a new person.\'94 \'93the life that i live now is a dream come true. i\'92m able to do what i love in the pool and out of the pool. i have a beautiful baby boy, a gorgeous fianc\'e9, a great family, i\'92m closer to the people who like me and love me for me than i ever have been in my life \'96 and i would never change that. i truly am living a dream come true.\'94\
 if you want to be the best, you have to do things that other people aren't willing to do.\
 thank you. i do. well, i feel all right. no, not yet. maybe a couple questions and -- you get that, right? i'll just be like a tape recorder, though. i mean, sometimes i feel it, but, i mean, i like to just think of myself as a normal person who just has a passion, has a goal and a dream and goes out and does it. and that's really how i've always lived my life. i consider myself normal. i've spent 20 years in the pool. i consider that something that's normal. what do you consider normal? i don't consider -- well, that's not normal. that's right. no. i've never heard of anybody else who does that. i mean, if you want to be the best, you have to do things that other people aren't willing to do. and at that point, you know, we had thought that for every year, we get 52 other days of more training than anybody else gets, every single year. olympic gold medalist, world record holder, special athlete. i mean, i grew up. my sister was first in the nation, third in the world, when she was 14, so i was 9. and then i got to 10 and i saw, like, all the cool things that she got to do. like travel all over the world and do this, do that, i was like, that sounds cool, like i want to do that. we were all very competitive in everything that we do. i would always try to. they wouldn't always let me play, like play games with them but -- yes. everything that we do. wow. you know, i think to be -- for me to be an american is -- you know, it's one of the greatest things in the world for -- you know, for me just because i've been able to grow up with everything. the freedom. you know, in my eyes this is the greatest country in the world. michael jordan. he changed the sport of basketball in my eyes. you know how -- you know, on and off the court. the guy, i mean, in my eyes, made basketball what it is. and you know what he did -- i haven't. never met him. i've -- you know, i've had that thought a lot. i mean, i think part of me would ask him about what made him come back to the sport. what made him go to basketball and then decided to come back -- or excuse me, baseball, and then decide to come back to basketball. you know, i'm sure i'll be the first one to admit i've made a lot of mistakes in my life. and, you know, but i think being able to have the opportunity of being a "celebrity". i mean -- well, i guess, i literally have made a boatload of mistakes and, you know, that's a part of growing and learning and i guess becoming an adult. you know, you -- with every mistake that you make, you obviously have to pay for the consequences that come your way. and -- not too good. like the worst in the world, you know, like i lost all the -- i mean, i think it sort of just -- yes, it's terrible. you know, i think -- my mom has always been obviously how all moms are. you know, they're very supportive in their children. and you know, my mom growing up, you know, always would let us kind of see how we -- i guess choose the decisions that we wanted to but if we made those decision, we had to live with the consequences that came our way. do you feel people overreacting? people build you up and they'll knock you down. i mean, i don't know. i try not to get myself into too much trouble. i think the biggest thing is you got to find who's real and who's not. with what? a woman would probably be twice. in my eyes, yes. sure, definitely probably, high school. i mean, i don't -- i think they're both learning experiences. for me, it's more about personal goals and things i want to achieve myself. i know that if i prepare myself the best way i can, everything else will fall into place. i'm retiring and i won't be coming back. morgan: that will be it? yes. competitive swimming, yes. yes. probably going to need to do something for exercise. it is. i think one of the biggest things after i do retire is, you know, now when i go to the ocean, go to the beach, i don't want get in the water. i spend so much time in the water, i'm like -- no, i'll sit here in the beach and you guys go have fun or i'll sit by the pool, you guys do what you want to do. i mean, the biggest thing is -- i mean, i talk about how i got to where i am -- a dream, a plan and i reach for it. that's literally all -- how i got to where i am. sure, i mean, i'm human. first time i met him, i went to a summer league. i went to one of his summer league meets to watch him swim. and i was able just to hang out. i was with his mom. i watched him swim. and we were playing basketball. yes. and he would just relax and it would kind of help him relax and take his, you know, his mind off the pain. i showed up at like midnight. i had to turn around and go home the next day. there are things that are protected, yes. yes. i mean, you know, there are a lot of things that -- i mean, i would say people know about 90 percent of everything that happens in my life. the other 10 percent just no one needs to know. nothing. i literally just -- unmotivated, didn't want to do anything, didn't want to get out of bed, didn't want to work out. had no drive, had no goals. i had goals but i just didn't want to do anything about them. i'm just unmotivated. i mean, i wouldn't say it was as motivated as i've ever been. but i am very motivated, after going through some of the races i've had happen over the last three years, i just don't want to lose, i'm sick of it. i actually didn't even know that was the number until earlier in the year when somebody brought it up. i have personal things that i want to accomplish. and that's what i'm after. pretty cool. i'm laid back. i would have been able to complete everything that i've ever wanted. if i can look back on my career and say i've done everything i've ever wanted, no matter how many medals, no matter how many records, no matter how many this, that, whatever, if i can look back in my career and say, it doesn't matter with anything else. i consider my career a success. being the first michael phelps. that's really the only thing, doing something that nobody else has ever done before, changing the sports of swimming. that's what i hope to walk out of this sport with. thank you very much. thank you.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300

\f1\fs30 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I don't even know what my life's like now. It's a blur. I've been on the road non-stop.\
No. If I have a day off, I'll sleep until two in the afternoon, just to catch up on sleep. I've worked out 4 times since Beijing. I'm a little out of shape.\
No, God no.\
I grew up around the pool with my sisters. Both of my sisters swam. I was always there. So I thought, why not? My mom put us in the water for water safety, so we were comfortable in the water in case anything ever happened. I learned that way, and started liking it more and more.\
I started on my back because I wouldn't put my face in. I really wasn't too keen on it.\
The only reason I started swimming was for water safety. Then, once I started falling in love with sports, I got more comfortable with it.\
Well, I was playing other sports and she was pretty much just like, "How do I wear him down?" So I was playing baseball, lacrosse, soccer and swimming all at once. When I got home I'd be beat.\
It helped me relax. I felt comfortable in the water. I was in my own world, focused. I love sports and I'm a very goal-oriented person. Once I started falling in love with sports, it was easy. I was able to put my mind on something and go for it. That's how I am with everything, it doesn't matter what it is that I do. If I want to do something, nothing will stand in my way.\
At the age of 11 my coach told me I could make the Olympic team in four years, so I said "Okay, I want to make the Olympic team, so that's what we're going to do." And I started training for that. I went five straight years without ever missing a workout. Every single day, 365 days a year.\
Oh, oftentimes.\
Well my mom would ask me "Are you sure that's the best decision?" And I'd think, think, think. And I'd realize that actually it wasn't the best decision. At a very young age, I wrote down the goals that I had so I could always see what I wanted to accomplish. And I would look at that goal sheet and think "I still want to do this." So I'd decide "I'm not quitting. "\
My coach. I was 11 when I started it and I've done it ever since.\
\
I would visualize the best-and worst-case scenarios. Whether I get disqualified or my goggles fill up with water or I lose my goggles or I come in last, I'm ready for anything.\
They probably help me more. I don't like to lose. If I fail, I ask myself, "What can I do to make sure that doesn't happen again?"\
\uc0\u8232 It made me realize that things can change in the blink of an eye and it also made me realize that when you use your imagination anything can happen. I was very negative for the first few days after I found out my wrist was broken, and I had a lot of time to think. I realized that all the people that told me I can't do it, that this is going to make it even harder? You know what? I'm gonna do it.\
\uc0\u8232 I have had extreme ups and downs. The biggest thing I learned after I broke my wrist is to never give up. Nothing in life will ever come easy. It depends on how you deal with those obstacles and how you overcome those obstacles. If you can overcome them, you're a stronger person. If you make mistakes along the way, as long as you never make that same mistake again, you're a successful person.\
\uc0\u8232 My mom instilled in me at a very early age how important education was and how that came first. I couldn't go play sports if we didn't get everything else done -- and I love sports. I'd go from the swimming pool to school to the swimming pool, come home and do my homework. I'm kind of a creature of habit. Once I get used to doing things, it's like second nature.My communication with my mom was always awesome. I'm a very vocal person and I speak what I feel. No matter what it was, she'd say "Are you sure you want to do this?" She'd let me make up my own mind.\u8232 I was very, very competitive\u8232 My lunches were awful. My mom would give me peanut butter and honey sandwiches. I was like, "Mom! Where are the little tiny Twinkies? I want some Twinkies! I want some fruit snacks! Come on!" I never got them. I ended up trading with kids at lunch.\u8232 Hey, enough with the kid talk!\u8232 I'm not looking to have a kid, not right now. My dog is good, but he just barks.}